 




LIFE AT 21 LANE
a play in one act by 

Austin Mitchell


This play is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are either the product of the authorís imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons living or dead are entirely coincidental.

CAST OF CHARACTERS:
MAIN CHARACTERS:
DARLENE: Twenty-two-year-old basic school teacher 
PRISCILLA: Twenty-five-year-old business woman 
WELLER: Fifteen-year-old schoolboy, reputed gunman 
BANJO: Fifty-three-year-old jack of all trades
TINY: Thirty-year-old barmaid
GWEN: Forty-five-year-old business woman 
SUPPORTING CHARACTERS:
JUICY BARNES: Twenty-year-old reputed gunman 
PABLO: Eighteen-year-old reputed gunman 
JONATHAN: Thirty-year-old bus driver
SIDNEY: Removal van driver
SERGEANT BRENT WRIGHT: Forty-five-year-old policeman
MEDA: Thirty-one-year-old factory worker
CORPORAL SAM JEPSON: Thirty-six-year-old policeman
CORPORAL JACK WINSTON: Thirty-three-year-old policeman
CONSTABLE EVERALD NOTICE: Twenty-six-year- old policeman
TREVAN ëDEUCEí MC KOY: Seventeen-year-old reputed gunman

Table of Contents:
Scene 1
Scene 2
Scene 3
Scene 4
Scene 5
Scene 6
Footnotes

SCENE ONE
(In Priscillaís living room. There are some couches, whatnot, entertainment center. A flat screen television set sits in the middle of the entertainment center.)
DARLENE (Sitting on a couch): Where is Wella? How come he hasnít come home from school as yet? Today, big Friday evening, that boy is joking. I can bet that all the teachers and students have gone home.
PRISCILLA: Are you sure that he went to school?
DARLENE: From our mother died, he has gotten from bad to worse. Mister Banjo never even came here one day to talk to him. He is a real dead stock.
PRISCILLA: You can say that again. Anyway, they have some new schools where bad boys like him can go.
DARLENE: Let us try to get him into one of them. I donít want him to go anywhere and get mixed up with bad company again.(Enter Banjo. He is dressed in jeans, tí shirt, a pair of long boots and dark glasses. He is clean shaven and has a bald head)
PRISCILLA: Mister Banjo, what are you doing here? You never heard that mummy died, look how long now?
BANJO: How could I have heard? I was working down in St. Elizabeth.
DARLENE: She is dead and buried. We phoned you. We sent messages. Lord Mister Banjo, you could have treated her better than that.
PRISCILLA: It must have been Gwen, who stopped him from coming. Look at what mummy did for you and you treated her so bad.
BANJO: I lost my phone. Thatís why you werenít hearing from me. (Bows his head, then covers it with his hands.)
DARLENE: We know that you and our mother broke up a long time ago, but at least you could have phoned us to find out about her. You must have known that she was sick and in and out of the hospital.
BANJO: Itís just last week that I got back another phone and I decided to come and find out if everybody was all right. Everybody I talked to on my way up here said that she got a good turning out.
DARLENE: Lots of people came and I never heard anybody complaining that they never got enough to eat or drink.
BANJO: Iím glad to hear that. Where is Wella?
PRISCILLA: We were just talking about him. Look how long school over and he hasnít come home yet.
BANJO: Are you sure that he went to school? All heís good for is to keep bad company. Police will soon come for him.
BANJO: Anyway, thatís not what I came here to talk about. Where is Roselynís bank book?
PRISCILLA: What did you say, Mister Banjo? Repeat what you just said. You are asking for our motherís bank book?
BANJO: So, whatís wrong if I ask about it? Itís only the two of us names were in it and now that she is dead, I want it.
DARLENE: (Laughs) So you never knew that she took out your name and put Priscillaís and my name in there. Itís the money that she had in there we used to bury her. We are using the balance to send Wella to school.
BANJO: (Stands up) Both of you are lying. The amount of money that was in the account would bury Roselyn and still leave money to educate Wella up to University level. I bet that it will soon finish. I bet that both of you went in there and used it off. When it finishes, donít come to me for any money for Wella. Iím going to the bank on Monday to find out about it.
PRISCILLA: Mister Banjo, from our mother died, six months now, this is the first time we are seeing you. Where were you all this time? You claimed that you lost your phone. Look how cheap phones are, you should be able to buy another one. I know that you are lying.
BANJO: Thatís none of your business, girl and I want both of you off the place too. How soon can you come off? I promised Gwen and my brotherís woman, Naomi, to move them up here by next week. And remember that itís only your clothes you have here. I own all of the furniture and everything else.
PRISCILLA: Darlene, it seems as if Mister Banjo is not in his right mind. Go and call Aunt Ruby for me. Are you getting mad, Mister Banjo? My motherís will read and she left the place to me, Darlene and Wella. I never saw you bringing any furniture here yet. And you took everything that you owned with you when you were leaving the last time.(Exits Darlene)
BANJO: I am going down to Sammyís bar. And you see, if by the time I come back the two of you donít take out your belongings, I am going to throw them out onto the sidewalk and Iím not responsible for what happens to them. (Exits Banjo)
PRISCILLA: What a wicked man, Mister Banjo is turning out to be. Look how our mother looked after that man and in her hour of need he was nowhere to be found. God is going to give him his reward though. (Enter Wella)
PRISCILLA: Look at the time you are coming home from school, boy.
WELLA: Whatís that to you? Thatís none of your business.
PRISCILLA: Who are you being fresh with, boy? (Boxes Wellaís face)
WELLA: What did you boxed me for? Is it you who is sending me to school? From my mother died any of you business with me?(Enter Gwen, she is Banjoís woman. She carries a broom and other implements, she is humming a tune)
PRISCILLA: Where are you going, Miss Gwen?
GWEN: What are you doing here, Priscilla? Banjo told me that, you, Darlene and Wella moved up to Miss Rubyís house. He said that he ran you off the place because none of you have any manners to him and itís us he wants to live here. My sister, Naomi has gone to look for our mother. She isnít coming here until tomorrow evening.
WELLA: (Still has his hand over where Priscilla had boxed him) What is she saying, Priscilla? Banjo doesnít want us to live here anymore?
PRISCILLA: Miss Gwen, I know that you have children for Mister Banjo and Miss Naomi, is his brother, Scullyís woman. Nothing what Mister Banjo told you is true. I am begging you to just come out of my place. You know me already and know that Iím a very serious woman. (Enter Darlene)
DARLENE: I donít see Aunt Ruby, Priscilla, it looks like she has gone to church. But wait, what is Miss Gwen doing here with broom and brush?
PRISCILLA: Itís the same question I am asking her.
GWEN: I am not leaving here tonight until Banjo comes back. Go and pack up your things and call Sidneyís van to move them up to your auntís house, Priscilla, Darlene and Wella. Banjo said that itís only the clothes you are to move with because he owns all the furniture and everything else.
PRISCILLA: You know what, let me go and find Mister Banjo and try thrashing out this thing with him. Iíll soon be back, Darlene and Wella. (Exits Priscilla)
GWEN: I am coming with you, Priscilla. Darlene, if Naomiís baby father, Scully, comes up here, tell him that Iíve gone down to Sammyís bar to look for Banjo. (Exits Miss Gwen)
WELLA (eating his dinner): Darlene, whatís going on? It looks like Banjo wants to run us out of here, but how can he do that and he doesnít own the place? (Enter two men. Both are masked) (One is burly while the other is tall and thin)
BURLY GUNMAN: This is a stickup. I want all the money that you have.
WELLA: I know that voice, itís Juicy Barnes. I must tell Dutch that you and Pablo came to my house and tried to rob me and my sister.
PABLO: I told you that itís here Killer lives and you didnít believe me.
JUICY BARNES: Killer, hold it down, no harm was done. I will see you in the morning. (Exits both Juicy Barnes and Pablo) (Wella continues eating his dinner. Finally, Darlene finds her voice.)
DARLENE: Wella, you are a gunman? They call you Killer? You are out there murdering people?
WELLA: So, what if they call me Killer? That doesnít mean that I have ever killed anybody yet. They only call me that because they and I are friends.
DARLENE: They say to show me your company and I tell you who you are. If you are keeping company with gunmen then you must be a gunman too. (Enter Priscilla)
PRISCILLA: I donít see Mister Banjo. Heís hiding from us. (Looks at Darlene rather curiously)(Darlene still looks frightened.)
PRISCILLA: Why are you looking so frightened, Darlene?
DARLENE: Two of Wellaís friends just tried to hold me up. (Priscillaís hands fly to her mouth.)
WELLA (Has finished eating his dinner now): How do you know that they and I are friends?
DARLENE: They said so, Wella and you said so too.
PRISCILLA: You gave them any money?
DARLENE: It looks as if they have the same boss. When he said he was going to tell the boss on them, they left. They had on masks, but from he heard their voices, he recognized them.
WELLA: Which boss are you talking about, Darlene? I am not a member of any gang. Sometimes those guys ride past me on their bikes and wave to me. What do you want me to do?
PRISCILLA: You donít see that the boy is a gunman. Let us call the police to come and lock him up. Where is his school bag? I donít want anybody to come and shoot up my house looking for him. (Priscilla grabs up Wellaís school bag which had been thrown into a corner of the room. She opens the bag. Wella is still seated around the table.)
DARLENE: You find any gun, Priscilla? (Priscilla is searching the bag)
PRISCILLA: No, itís only his books I see.(Throws back the bag in a corner of the room)(Enters Scully. He is carrying a huge bag.)
WELLA: (Laughs) Iím sure that neither of you ever saw me with a gun yet, so I donít know what Priscilla was looking for.
SCULLY: All of you are still here? But I heard that you had all left. I came looking for Gwen and Banjo down here and now I find the three of you. So tell me, Priscilla, Gwen and Banjo didnít come up here?
PRISCILLA: I donít know where your brother and your sister- in-law are, Scully. So, all you want to come up here to live too?
SCULLY: I would be living in my brotherís house. I wouldnít be living in anywhere belonging to you.
DARLENE: Scully, all you who donít live anywhere getting fresh with people too.
WELLA: Hey Scully, you and Banjo want to run me and my sisters off this place?
SCULLY: (Ignores Wella) Banjo told me that he got the place now and he is going to take the big house and my woman and I can get the small one. I came to sleep here tonight because I neither have taxi nor bus fare to go back to my yard.
DARLENE: Your sister-in-law came here and left. She was looking for Mister Banjo and didnít find him. He is hiding from her. He said he was going down to Sammyís bar, but when Priscilla went down there she didnít find him.
PRISCILLA: Scully, the best advice I would give you is to go and look for your brother and find out whatís going on.
SCULLY: If I donít find him itís right back here I am coming and you boy, Wella, watch what Iím going to do to you.
WELLA: Itís you to watch what Iím going to do to you if you put back your foot up here again, tonight. (Scully whips out a knife)
SCULLY: Hey boy, do you think because your daddy is my brother, I am going to be afraid to do you something?
WELLA: Hey, Scully, anyhow you cut me, I must go for my gun and do you something. (Scully rushes at Wella with his knife, but he runs into a room)
PRISCILLA: Scully, mind you mash up anything for me.
SCULLY: Both of you must talk to him. Heís talking to me like he and I are the same age. Everybody knows that he is a gunman, but thatís not going to make me be afraid of him. Iím going to see if I find Banjo.(Exits Scully)(Enters Wella)
PRISCILLA: Wella, you must have some respect for your uncle.
DARLENE: He might have to help you out one of these days.
WELLA: (Hisses his teeth) Scully is worse than Banjo.
DARLENE: You threatened to shoot him. He can report you to the police and make them arrest you.
WELLA: He drew his knife on me and I didnít do him anything.
DARLENE: Come, let us go down to the station to report the robbery.
WELLA: Both of you didnít hear what I said. The men are going to say that Iím an informer and come to look for me.
PRISCILLA: Let them come, who told you to take up with gunmen?
DARLENE: Stay here and watch the place until we come back.(Exit women)
WELLA: Itís my friends I am going to check right now. Both of you can stay there, about me to watch the place. When the two of you come back, Banjo might move in Miss Gwen and Naomi. I can always go up to my auntís house to live.(The lights fade.)

SCENE TWO
(This is at Sammyís bar. Banjo and Scully are in the bar drinking. The bartender is a woman, Tiny. Two men and a woman are the only other customers. Music is playing in the background)(Enter, Priscilla and Darlene)
BANJO: Where are both of you going?
PRISCILLA: Your woman came down here and didnít find you. Where were you, Mister Banjo?
BANJO: What do you want to know that for?
PRISCILLA: Because she came to put us out of our house and it was you who put her up to it.
TINY: Order if you want anything. I donít want any quarrelling in my bar.
PRISCILLA: Tiny, I donít go to bars to drink and you should know that too. You ever see me in your bar yet? Then how come you are being fresh with me like that?
DARLENE: I wonder if she knows who we are? Hey bartender girl, you must have better manners than that.
BANJO: Donít worry yourself, Tiny, itís me they are arguing with. They are in my place and donít want to come out. I want to get rid of them.
PRISCILLA: You heard this man, telling lies about us. Who is in anywhere for you, Mister Banjo?
TINY: If you stay in the bar quarrelling, I am going to lose my customers. Thatís what Iím talking about. (The two men and the woman leave)Look there, see my customers leave there.
PRISCILLA: Run these two men out of your bar, Tiny.
BANJO: I am a paying customer. Tiny is not going to run me out of her bar.
DARLENE: Mister Banjo, youíd better prepare to bail Wella. He knows gunmen who came to our house and tried to hold me up. I went to the station to report it and they want him to come in for them to question him.
BANJO: What business is that of mine? Itís the two of you he lives with. You and your sister must deal with it because itís you who made the report on him. (Several more customers have made to enter the bar, but the entrance is blocked by the two women) (People hiss their teeth and walk away)
TINY: Women, you donít see that both of you are blocking people from coming into the bar and you are not buying anything.
BANJO: They are waiting on me to buy something for them, Tiny.
DARLENE: Iím a big respectable woman. Itís me, you want to go to bars to drink.
TINY: So leave my bar then.
PRISCILLA: We are waiting on Mister Banjo. We want to know what heís up to.
BANJO: You want to know what Iím up to. Itís tomorrow we are moving in so you had better move out from tonight.
DARLENE: So what are you going to do about Wella?
BANJO: (Finishes drinking his rum and milk and ignores Darleneís question about Wella) Give me another drink, Tiny and give Scully one too. Give them a drink too. What do both of you want?
PRISCILLA: We donít want anything to drink, isnít that true, Darlene?(Darlene nods in agreement with her sister)
BANJO: These two girls are my step-daughters. The two of them donít have any manners to me and thatís why I ran them out of my house. (Tiny serves Banjo and Scully their drinks.)
BANJO: (Drinks some of his rum and milk) From I know them going on fifteen years now, their behavior hasnít changed. But I leave them up to those two men theyíve taken up.
TINY: Itís so they are wicked to you. Thatís why you ran them out of your house, Banjo?
PRISCILLA: Tiny, if you want to listen to Mister Banjo and his lies, youíre free so to do, but donít pass any remarks about me and my sister. And I would like to know how we were feisty with you, Mister Banjo because itís not us who told our mother to run you? (Banjo gets into a temper, when suddenly three men rush towards the bar. They are masked. One is a burly man while another is tall and thin. The other is slim and of medium height)
TINY: Gunmen!
BURLY GUNMAN: (Waving his gun at the customers and motioning for Priscilla and Darlene to go inside the bar) This is a stickup. We want all of your money. Put them in this bag here. We want all of your cell phones too.
SLIM GUNMAN: (Trying to disguise his voice) (With bag) Put all of your money in here. Come bartender, open the till.(The till is opened and the money taken)
TALL GUNMAN: We want all of the liquor and cigarettes too. (Takes liquor, cigarettes and other things and puts them into another bag).(Cell phones are put on the bar counter).
BURLY GUNMAN: All of you empty out your pockets and take off your rings and all of the men are to take off their shoes and their hats.(Banjo and Scully comply)
TALL GUNMAN: Hey, what kind of cheap cell phone these people have? None of them have any cameras on them. All of you take them back.(Gives back phones)
SLIM GUNMAN: (Still trying to disguise his voice) I donít go anywhere and donít kill somebody. I marked all of your faces. If any of you report it at the police station Iím going to shoot you. (Points his gun at Scully)
TINY: But what a way youíre bright, you robbed us of all our money and donít want us to report it. I donít even have bus fare to go to my yard; youíve cleaned out my bar. As soon as you leave here Iím going to report it at the station.
SLIM GUNMAN: (Still disguising his voice) (Points gun at Tiny) You want to die, woman. Give us back the cell phones.(Takes back cell phones and put in bag.)
BURLY GUNMAN: Come my brethren, we have to leave here because we arenít sure if the police arenít patrolling the area. All of you go on your faces.(Everybody goes to the floor and gunmen run out of the bar)(People rise from their positions on the floor after making sure that the gunmen are gone)
TINY: (Grabs a cell phone from out of a drawer and presses the police emergency number) Officer theyíve just robbed Sammyís bar. Come quick. Murder! Murder!( Priscilla, Darlene, Banjo and Scully still look dazed)
TINY: Itís a good thing that I have this phone hidden away for any emergencies.
DARLENE: Mister Banjo, I could swear that the slim one was Wella, even though he was trying to disguise his voice. The other two are the ones who were trying to rob me. I want back my phone from him. He is a murderer. You heard what he said, that he doesnít rob anywhere and donít kill somebody. My blood ran cold when I heard him say so.
BANJO: What a big liar and wicked girl. Itís your brother you are calling a gunman and murderer.
TINY: Theyíve gone with twenty thousand dollars in cash and more than that in liquor and cigarettes.
BANJO: They took away more than that from me. And the phone that theyíve gone with is worth more than fifteen thousand dollars.
SCULLY: Itís about ten thousand dollars the boys took from me plus my phone, which is worth about the same amount of money. The one who said that it was cheap phones we had doesnít know anything about phones. You saw the boy who pointed the gun in my face. Itís Wella, I could swear that it was him. He was feisty with me up at the house and I had to draw my knife after him. He swears that he is going for his gun to kill me.
BANJO: Itís not him that, Scully. None of those men have the build like Wella. Wellaís shorter than that man.
SCULLY: All I know is that I want back my phone. Anytime I see him, heíd better give it back to me or else I am going to do him something.
PRISCILLA: The two of you never have money yet. Both of you are two liars and the police should lock you up for public mischief. About you lose expensive phone. The phone that they took from me is a cheap phone. I donít walk with expensive phone to let them steal it.
TINY: I am going to tell the police that itís those two women and those two men who set up the robbery, because I heard you whispering that you know one of the men.
BANJO: Tiny, itís me you are calling a thief? Look how much business I give you. Look how many times Iíve come here and drank off my pay. Look how many times Iíve borrowed money from you to buy more liquor and paid you back. (Pricilla and Darlene are shaking their heads at Banjoís revelations)
PRISCILLA: You are confessing what you used to do with your money. You never spent any money on the place that you are claiming. Look how many lies you used to tell our mother when you came home with your pockets empty.
BANJO: I used to give her money though. Where were you ten years ago when I was putting on those two rooms on the big house and make Darleneís house? You know how many times your mother told me to run both of you off the place when she dies and make you go live with your boyfriends.
PRISCILLA: Itís a lie youíre telling, Mister Banjo, so why did she leave the place to us then? All I remember seeing you do is mixing cement.
BANJO: It was just buying and selling goods your mother used to do. Have you ever wondered where she got money from to work on the house? My lawyer will talk to you.
DARLENE: Stop arguing with him,Priscilla. Those two houses were there before Priscilla and I were born.
TINY: I donít understand, how she would give you her place over her own children, Banjo.
BANJO: They treated her the same way they did me. They took up with two men. One of the men, all he can think about is his expensive liquor and the other man is older than Darlene. He is in America, working.
PRISCILLA: (Shouts) Come out of my business, Mister Banjo, you are too inquisitive. Mr. Banjo youíre forgetting that our father was a builder. He did a lot of improvements to those two houses before he died.(Enter two policemen, Sergeant Duke Wright and Corporal Hal Jepson)
SERGEANT WRIGHT: Who did they kill down here? Anybody get shot? We heard that robbery and murder took place down here.
TINY: Itís murder, yes, look how long you took to reach here. The boys could have killed us off already.
SERGEANT WRIGHT: (Getting very flustered) Tiny, donít bother with that. All right, tell us what happened. How many of them were there? Any of you recognize any of them?
TINY: It was three of them, but they had on masks covering their faces. I heard those women there saying that they recognized them.(Points to Darlene and Priscilla)
PRISCILLA: How could we recognize them and they never took off their masks?
CORPORAL JEPSON: They got anything?
TINY: They emptied the bar of all the liquors and cigarettes and theyíve gone with twenty thousand dollars and all of our cell phones. Banjo and Scully said that they took money from them too, plus their expensive cell phones.
SERGEANT WRIGHT: What did you say Tiny? Banjo and Scully lost money and their cell phones too. Is that true Banjo? Because from I know you, Iíve never seen you with a good cell phone yet.
BANJO: Itís true, Sarge and they took money from Scully and his cell phone too, sir. Itís only those women there they didnít rob. (Points to Priscilla and Darlene)
TINY: I feel that it was they who set up the robbery, Sarge. They are just standing before the bar and not buying anything.
PRISCILLA: (Marches up to Tiny) Beg your pardon, Corporal Jepson and Sergeant Wright but if you werenít here I would lean your face for you, Tiny.
TINY: (Runs into the bar and grabs up an empty rum bottle) Sergeant Wright and Corporal Jepson, give me some way there, let me burst this bottle in that womanís head because she threatened to lean my face.
SERGEANT WRIGHT: Donít bother with that, Tiny.
TINY: How do you mean donít bother with that, Sarge? You know that I donít back down from anybody. I have to do her something tonight.
DARLENE: Tiny, do you think I was just going to sit down and let you beat up my sister and donít do you anything? Iíll soon leave because you are encouraging Mister Banjo to fast in my business and I donít want to get myself into trouble for you.
TINY: (Getting into a temper) Sergeant, you heard this other one threatening me now. I am going to do them something. (Tiny is twice the size of either Priscilla or Darkene both of whom are tall, thin women.)
BANJO: Donít bother with that, Tiny, I am going to take care of them. Sergeant, I have a matter to put to you, sir. Those two young women there live in my house. I gave them notice and they donít want to come out. And they also went into my account and used off my money too, sir.
SERGEANT WRIGHT: What kind of notice did you give them?
BANJO: How do you mean what kind of notice I gave them? I told them to come out of my place. Isnít that good enough?
DARLENE: Mister Banjo, are you mad? From I know you itís 21 Lane youíve always lived, in a cardboard house. My mother had little sympathy on you and took you in and you gave her a boy child before you left her and went to live with your sweetheart. You are accusing us of stealing your money, but it was our mother who owned the account. She left it for me and Priscilla.
SERGEANT WRIGHT: Banjo, tell you what you do. Let us see your title for the place. The best thing I would advise you to do is to take out a summons.
BANJO: Thatís what I never wanted to do. Their aunt has a big house renting out. She can find rooms up there to put them up. Monday, I am going out to the bank and Iím sorry for both of you.(Both Priscilla and Darlene burst out laughing)
TINY: Sarge, how are you making Banjoís business take up so much of your time? One of the robbers was disguising his voice.
CORPORAL JEPSON: Itís the same boy these people came to report. Heís Banjoís son, it was he who robbed you, Tiny. He changed his voice because he doesnít want you to recognize him.
SERGEANT WRIGHT: That boy is now a person of interest to us. We are asking you to tell him to come down to the station with his lawyer. We are going now. (Exits both policemen)(Priscillaís cell phone starts ringing. She takes a phone from her back pocket.)
PRISCILLA: (Answering phone) What did you say, Wella? Banjoís woman moved in on us. They sent mine and Darleneís belongings up to Aunt Rubyís house. (Exits Banjo and Scully). They could be bright, you wait until we come up there. (Presses button on the phone to finish the conversation)
DARLENE: Who was that, Priscilla? What are they saying?
PRISCILLA: Itís Wella, he said Mister Banjoís woman move in on us. I am wondering how Wella reached home so quickly if he was really one of the robbers. Where are Mister Banjo and Scully?
DARLENE: A car was waiting for Wella and his friends up the road. I could swear that I heard it drive off after they left. Mister Banjo and Scully are gone. Itís a call they got from Gwen, thatís why they ran off so quickly. Where they got phones from?
PRISCILLA: They must be mad. They can just move into peopleís place like that. They are going to find out something tonight.
TINY: What happened?
DARLENE: Mister Banjo moved in his woman on us.
PRISCILLA: Come Darlene, we will see you, Tiny.(Exit Priscilla and Darlene)
TINY: I am going to lock up the bar and go up there. Iím sure that their brother is one of the robbers, thatís why he was trying to disguise his voice. I am going to call the police and tell them where to find him. Iím not sure that all of them arenít in league with him.(The light fades)

SCENE THREE
(In the living room of the captured house of Priscilla. Some couches and chairs are in the room. Music is playing softly in the background. Gwen is sweeping the floor. (Enter Banjo and Scully)
BANJO: So you moved in, Gwen. Where are the children?
GWEN: I left them up at my other sister, Imogeneís house. I am going for them first thing tomorrow. Naomiís children are up there too. Where are Priscilla and Darlene?
BANJO: They have gone up to their auntís house.
SCULLY: I am going over to the other house to see how it looks. Iím so tired that maybe itís in the morning before both of you see me again. (Exits Scully)
BANJO: (Sitting on a couch, his arms around Gwenís waist)
This house is very nice and weíre on solid ground now.
GWEN: (Has a worried look) Banjo, are you sure you know what you are doing when you made us put out Priscilla and Darlene and take over their houses?
BANJO: I told you that itís my house. We sent their
belongings up to Miss Rubyís house, didnít we? (Enters Tiny)
GWEN: Where are you going? How did you know that itís up here we live now?
TINY: Banjo told me.
BANJO: You saw Priscilla and Darlene?
TINY: I saw them moving their belongings into their auntís house. They say they are going to court to get back their houses from you.
BANJO: Let them try. I spent a lot of money on this place here.
TINY: Banjo, it looks like a big house you have. Can you rent me one of the rooms?
BANJO: Itís twenty thousand dollars I am renting one of the rooms for plus three monthís deposit, plus recommendations. You have to show me your last receipt from the last place you lived plus your last two utility bills. But as itís you, Tiny, if you pay me now you can get it for fifteen thousand dollars plus one months deposit.
TINY: Iíll soon come back, I am going for the money.(Exits Tiny)
BANJO: Itís four bedrooms the house has, so we can rent out two of the rooms.(Enters Janga, heís Priscillaís boyfriend)
JANGA: (Looks shocked) Where is Priscilla? How come you and your woman look so comfortable, like itís your house you are in, Banjo?
BANJO: Youíre damn right Janga, weíre in our own house. You donít live here again. You can go and join your woman up at Miss Rubyís house. I heard that itís there they moved to.
JANGA: Itís a whole heap of things we have. If I never saw you I would say that Priscilla moved out leaving me and took my things too, but why would she leave all of the furniture?
BANJO: Are you sure thatís not what she has done? As for the furniture, I bought every piece you see here. Next time you make sure that you donít go and live in a womanís house.
GWEN: (Bursts out laughing) Banjo I donít see any furniture, I donít know what Jangaís talking about. You and Priscilla are so cheap, itís a shame.
BANJO: I donít know what they did with the furniture. They must have sold them off or mashed them up.
JANGA: So where is Darlene? Sheís gone up there too? I donít understand. You bought what, Banjo? You didnít buy anything in this house? Where are my expensive liquors? Banjo, are you sure that you didnít kill Priscilla and Darlene?
BANJO: I look like a murderer to you?(Janga takes out his cell phone)
JANGA: Priscilla, where are you? I came home hungry like hell to see Banjo and his woman take over your house and all our things except the furniture is gone. And Banjo is claiming the furniture too.
JANGA: What did you say? You are up at Miss Rubyís house. So where are our belongings? Where are my liquors?( Enter Tiny)
TINY: Banjo, I brought the money to pay down on the room and Meda is coming to look at the other room.
JANGA: Banjo, you all renting out rooms to Tiny too and Miss Meda. You hear this Priscilla, Banjo is renting out your house.(Ends the call)
BANJO: I am not renting out anywhere for you, Janga, nor for Priscilla nor Darlene. I am renting out my house. You canít tell me what to do with my own property.
JANGA: I am going up to Miss Rubyís house to find out whatís really going on. But I am warning you not to get too comfortable, Banjo.( Exits Janga)
GWEN: Banjo, I am going up to the wholesale to buy some things. Iíll soon come back. (Exits Gwen)
BANJO: (Takes the money from Tiny and counts it) Tiny, come and sit beside me. (Tiny sits beside him) After this you donít have to pay me anymore rent. I will take it out in liquor and some good loving. (Tries to hug her up, but Tiny pushes him away)
TINY: Banjo, you must be mad or something. I donít even move into your house yet and you want us to be lovers.
BANJO: Why donít you move in from tonight? See back part of the money here. You can pay the truck to move your things.
TINY: Banjo, are you sure you can handle me?
BANJO: Cho, Tiny, if thatís what youíre afraid of, let us have a quickie. (Moves closer to Tiny)
TINY: Your woman will soon come back. You want her to cut me up.(There is a knock on the door and Banjo and Tiny pull apart)(Enter Gwen).
GWEN: Itís some things I went to buy to make breakfast in the morning.
BANJO: The stove is working, I checked it already. I donít know what they did with the rest of the things. At least the fridge looks like it is working. (Enter Meda)
MEDA: Evening, Miss Gwen, Tiny you reached up here before me. Banjo, Tiny told me that you have rooms up here to rent.
BANJO: I have one room left, but itís expensive. You have twenty thousand dollars plus one months deposit?
GWEN: I am not sharing any house with these two women, Banjo. See Naomi there, she is my sister and as soon as she comes tomorrow she is on her own.
MEDA: All you talking about not wanting to share house. You forget that all of us used to live at 21 Lane.
GWEN: You still live there. I am not sharing any house with you and Tiny. I donít want men to over-run my house.
TINY: Miss Gwen, I have lots of men friends, but if I live up here you donít have to worry about Banjo.
MEDA: I donít know why Gwen is behaving like that.
BANJO: Donít pay her no mind, Meda. Go for the money because if you wait until tomorrow somebody else might get it.
MEDA: I have the money with me. But I donít like Gwenís attitude because all of us used to live at 21 Lane so I donít know why she is behaving like that.
GWEN: I canít stop Banjo from renting you and Tiny the rooms, but if it was me, I wouldnít be renting either of you anywhere.
TINY: What have I done to you, Miss Gwen? As I told you, I donít want Banjo so if thatís what youíre afraid of, donít bother.
MEDA: Who wants Banjo? All I wanted was the room to live in. So she doesnít have to worry that I am going to sneak Banjo into my room when she is sleeping at nights. You donít have to lose any sleep that I am going to take Banjo away from you.
GWEN: Banjo, I am warning you about these two women here. I have young children. I donít want them exposed to the type of life they are going to live.
MEDA: Itís one man I have, so it couldnít be me you are talking about.
TINY: Itís me she is talking about. Yes, I have lots of men friends. But if I live up here, itís one man you are going to see coming to me and itís the one Iím along with. You know that too, Miss Gwen but you are just worried that Banjo will want to sleep with me. He asked me to sleep with him already. He wanted me to pay him half of the rent and sleep with him for the other half. I ran him away and told him to go and look his age and I will pay my full rent.
BANJO: You are a big liar, Tiny. See back your money here. Iím not renting you any room again.(Gives back Tiny her money)
GWEN: (Rushes at Tiny) You are telling lies on Banjo.(The two women start to wrestle)(Meda and Banjo try to part them)
MEDA: Donít bother with her, Tiny.
BANJO: Gwen, stop the fighting.
GWEN: How do you mean stop the fighting? After she told lies on you. So itís true, she is talking, you wanted to sleep with her. (The two women are pulled apart)
TINY: You see how she tore my blouse and scratched my face. I am going to sue you.
GWEN: Then you didnít tear my dress and scratched me too. Youíre lucky that itís only that you got, after you told lies on a respectable man like Banjo.
MEDA: Tiny, you know what Iím not renting any rooms from Banjo again.
BANJO: But I wasnít going to rent you anywhere.
TINY: Miss Gwen, any woman Banjo rents the house to, heís going to want to sleep with them. You see you, Banjo, I bet you donít come back to my bar and get anything more to trust.
BANJO: Get away from here, Tiny, after you told lies on me. Is it your bar? As far as I know Sammy owns the bar.
TINY: Itís Sammy, who owns it, but I operate it for him. Sammy canít tell me how to run the bar.
MEDA: Tiny, you can go on wasting time with Banjo and Gwen. You should be glad that you got back your money from Banjo because Iím not sure that he owns anywhere. Priscilla and Darlene will soon run him out. Iím leaving.(Exits Meda)
TINY: Wait for me, Meda, I am coming. I am going right up to Miss Rubyís house to encourage Priscilla and Darlene to run you out of their house, Banjo.
BANJO: (Bursts out laughing) Go on, I have the law on my side. Itís my place this and you are going to be frightened to see it a couple of months from now.
TINY: I bet that youíll soon have to come back to live at 21Lane in your cardboard house. (Exits)
BANJO: Youíre just bad minded, Tiny. Itís because I donít want to rent you my house why you are behaving like that. Telling lies about me wanting to sleep with you and I have my nice wife.(Tries to hug up Gwen but she pushes him away)
GWEN: Cho, Banjo, Iím not in any of that because I donít know what to believe. Iím going into the childrenís room.(Exits)
BANJO: Gwen is a wicked woman. This is the first night we are going to sleep together in anywhere on solid ground for a long time and she deserted me and I was just joking with Tiny. I am going to my bed too, I hope she changes her mind.(Exits Banjo)(The lights fade)

Taken from the play, Life at 21 Lane by Austin Mitchell

Other Books by Austin Mitchell
Collection of Short Stories:
Bring Back the Good Old Days 
Going to the Bushes to cut Firewood 
Waiting to Cross the Bridge
Better Days are Coming
Going Into the Hills to Teach 
Iím Back From the Hills Now 
The Worst is Over Now 
Taking a Short Cut Home
Novels:
Undercover Soldier-Part One 
Undercover Soldier-Part Two 
Uptown Lovers-Book One 
Uptown Lovers-Book Two 
No Tears for Sonya
Sleeping Love
The Downtown Massive-Book One 
The Money Found in the Canvass Bag 
The Hardest Way Out of Love 
Hot Nights in the Hills
My blog: stredwick.blogspot.com
My email: glengoffe1@cwjamaica.com
If you enjoyed these scenes why not buy the book and please be kind enough to leave a review at Amazon.

FOOTNOTES:
BROKEN ENGLISH-STANDARD ENGLISH
dash-throw away
fast-inqusitive (adj), inquire(v) 
hold it down- take it easy 
mash up-ruined, bankrupt
turning out-many people came to her funeral service and turning out afterwards
trust-credit
I US$= 129.00 Jamaican Dollars at publication date