60 Best Chicken Breast Recipes
SERVES: 4
PREP TIME: 15 min
COOK TIME: 25 min
CALORIES: 506
DAIRY-FREE
GLUTEN FREE
LOW-CARB
30 MINUTES
KID FRIENDLY
ONE POT
PRESSURE COOKER
ROUNDUPS
SLOW COOKER
Four chicken breasts in a braiser with Marry me chicken sauce topped with fresh basil
We’ve rounded up our 60 best chicken breast recipes, all of which are pretty easy, and super delicious. Let’s dive in!

60 Best Chicken Breast Recipes
Consider for a moment if the dreaded dinnertime conversation went like this: “what’s for dinner?” “Chicken breast.” “Chicken breasts for dinner? YAY!!!”. Well, we’ve rounded up our 60 best chicken breast recipes, all of which are pretty easy, and super delicious. Let’s dive in! Here are 60—yeah, that’s 6-0 easy chicken recipes—ideas for how to cook chicken breast that are anything but boring!

Marry Me Chicken (cover photo) recipe can be found at the bottom of this post.
easy piccata recipe with lemon caper chicken
on pan honey mustard chicken, potatoes, green beans
Chicken Breast Basics: How To Cook Chicken Breast Simply and Perfectly
Marry Me Chicken (cover photo). Recipe can be found at the bottom of this post.
Perfectly Poached Chicken. Just what it sounds like—a simple, perfect way to poach plain, boneless, skinless chicken breasts. This go-to recipe is ideal for weekend meal prepping!
Chicken Piccata. The one and only, classic Italian chicken piccata. Lemony, caper-y, buttery goodness.
Creamy Tomato Chicken Skillet Dinner. An easy, cheesy chicken breast supper that’s as basic as they come.
One-Pan Honey Mustard Chicken. Familiar flavors and a single skillet yield easy chicken dinner perfection.
Indian Butter Chicken. Hailing from Delhi, butter chicken is an absolute classic—succulent chicken pieces are simmered in a creamy tomato sauce to make for a cozy meal that everyone will love.
Greek Chicken freezer meal with potatoes, olive oil lemon oregano, garlic, dill. Greek chicken marinade, from a freezer bag.
Low Carb Pesto chicken topped with mozzarella cheese, fresh basil, and tomato bruschetta
Our Favorite Baked Chicken Breast Recipes
Lemon Chicken. Garlic, herbs and lemon—plus a glug of white wine—mean that these juicy, tender chicken breasts are as delicious as they are healthy.
Pesto Chicken Bruschetta. Chicken breasts are simply baked to perfection, topped with fresh mozzarella and juicy, garlicky fresh chopped tomatoes that’s basically everything you love about bruschetta, minus the bread
Chicken Empanadas. Tender, juicy shredded chicken, onions, peppers and garlic make a hearty, savory filling for this easy empanada recipe. Pro tip: make a bunch and freeze some for later.
Buffalo Chicken Bites. All of the spicy, vinegary, zingy flavor of Buffalo wings with none of the mess, OR the deep-frying—healthier, easier, and just as delicious, these chicken bites are a win-win-win.
sheet pan chicken shawarma dinner with red onions and red bell peppers next to pita and parsley
chicken shawarma nachos with tortilla chips and tahini and feta
Greek Chicken Freezer Meal. A super lemony, herbal marinade is the key to making this simple chicken-and-potatoes freezer meal radiate bright, summery, sun-soaked flavors—even after months in the freezer.
Chicken Shawarma Sheet Pan Dinner. Sheet pan dinners, to the rescue again! This time, we’ve tossed chicken breasts with classic shawarma spices to make a simple, healthy, flavorful chicken dinner.
Roasted Salsa Verde Chicken Nachos. Nachos are a totally valid dinner option. FYI.
Chicken Shawarma Nachos. See above. Nachos for dinner FTW.
Thai Fried Rice with Basil and chicken lime and cilantro
creamy Chicken Orzo Soup with carrots and celery in s bowl with a linen
Like A Hug, But Chicken: The Most Comforting Chicken Breast Recipes.
Creamy Chicken Orzo. Kinda like risotto, but orzo—creamy, carby, chicken-y, this creamy chicken orzo is a cold weather day-saver.
Skillet Chicken Pot Pie. When did people stop making chicken pot pie? And, more importantly, WHY? Chicken pot pie is so, so good—particularly this one!
Low-Carb Chicken Divan. This creamy chicken casserole is a childhood favorite of ours, and we’ve updated it for the new millennium with some low-carb swaps that mean we (and you) can indulge in it a little more often than we used to!
Stuffed Chicken Breast. Stuffed with mozzarella cheese, pesto and sun-dried tomatoes, this straight-out-of-the-80s chicken breast is the melty comfort we crave.
Thai Fried Rice with Basil. Fried rice is absolutely a comfort food in our homes. This lovely, simple Thai basil fried rice—loaded with chicken breast and savory rice—is a one-pan dinner that always hits the spot.
cheesy Green Chicken Enchiladas in a pan with serving spoon
baked chicken quesadillas cut up and served with guacamole, fresh pico de gallo and sour cream
Tex-Mex Chicken Breast Recipes
Green Chicken Enchiladas. Creamy, cheesy, and so very easy—these chicken enchiladas are slathered in tangy green enchilada sauce and are everything you’re craving today (and, let’s be honest, every day).
Baked Chicken Quesadilla. Chicken quesadillas are the easiest and most delicious meal-for-a-crowd! Made with shredded chicken, sour cream and plenty of cheese, they are always a hit.
Sheet Pan Chicken Fajitas. Super-flavorful, these simplified chicken breast fajitas make a simple, trusty weeknight supper.
Homemade Chicken Taquitos on a plate with guacamole, sour cream and salsa
cast iron skillet of chicken fajitas with bell peppers, avocado, and fresh limes
Homemade Chicken Taquitos. Filled with taco-seasoned shredded chicken and melty mozzarella, our crispy, fried, homemade taquito recipe is deliciously party-ready.
Simple Mole Chicken Enchiladas. A wildly easy, short-cut mole sauce recipe is the key to these quick chicken enchiladas.
Chicken Fajitas. Crazy delicious chicken breast may sound like an oxymoron, but—thanks to a limey, pineapple-and-jalapeño marinade—these chicken fajitas are as delicious as it gets.
Chicken Fajita Burrito Bowl. This chicken fajita bowl is one of our go-to weeknight meals. It’s healthy, easy, and balanced. Plus, it’s always a hit with the kids.
Coconut Chicken Soup Tom Kha Gai in a bowl with mushrooms
chicken tortilla soup with sour cream avocado and tortilla strips and lime
Chicken Soup Recipes For Every Soul and Every Mood
Coconut Chicken Soup. At once simple, pungent, creamy and spicy—this creamy coconut chicken soup is our own riff on classic Thai Tom Kha Gai.
White Bean Chicken Soup. Brightened with fresh dill, a squeeze of lemon juice and a little jalapeño, this garlicky chicken soup recipe is a fresh, modern take on classic chicken soup.
Tortilla Soup. Warmly spiced and satisfying, chicken tortilla soup comes together fast.
Chicken and Rice Soup. Fresh dill and lots of lemon juice bring brightness and vibrancy to this classic, easy, healthy chicken and rice soup recipe.
Green Chicken Enchilada Soup with avocado and zucchini
African Peanut Soup with kale and chicken in a bowl with a spoon
Chicken Meatball and Vegetable Soup. Our Whole30-approved chicken meatball soup recipe is soothing, cozy and easy to make.
Green Chicken Enchilada Soup. Enchilada soup is a budget-and-weeknight friendly marriage of two classic dishes, and we’re betting it’s destined to become a staple on your dinner table.
Chicken Tikka Masala Soup. Yep, we dreamt up a soup recipe built around the iconic flavors of tikka masala. Yummmm.
African Peanut Soup. Warming fresh ginger, jalapeño, cumin and plenty of garlic make a spicy base for this creamy, sweet-savory West African peanut soup recipe.
homemade chicken noodle soup in a bowl with a spoon
Green chicken chili verde soup in a bowl with avocado, lime and cilantro
Quick and Easy Chicken Noodle Soup. The beloved sick day classic, made from scratch in no time.
Five-Ingredient Chicken Tortilla Soup. In case our tortilla soup recipe isn’t quite quick enough for you, we’ve simplified it even more for the very busiest evenings.
Green Chicken Chili. Salsa verde, canned white beans, and—one of our favorite flavor-giving ingredients—canned green chilis make this easy chicken soup a total breeze.
Coconut Curry Soup with Chicken, Chickpeas and Hearty Greens. So filling and satisfying, it’s hard to believe that this chicken soup qualifies as health food—but we promise, it really, really does.
cast iron skillet of kung pao chicken
baked orange chicken on white rice topped with sesame seeds and green onions

Let’s Get Takeout. Actually, These Chicken Breast Recipes Will Be Even Faster So Let’s Save Money and Be Healthier and Eat Sooner Instead.
Chicken Chow Mein. Stir-fried noodles, studded with chicken and veggies, our chicken chow mein recipe makes your DIY Chinese takeout dreams come true.
Kung Pow Chicken. Our Kung Pao chicken swaps in cashews for the traditional peanuts, and gets extra balance from some added veggies.
Easy Orange Chicken. A healthy spin on the sweet-savory Chinese takeout favorite.
Crispy Chicken Stir-Fry. A quick chicken stir-fry with blistered green beans and a garlicky sauce is perfect for a better-than-takeout weeknight dinner!
No-Noodle Pad Thai. Low-and-no carb people, this one’s for you!
chicken waldorf salad with lettuce, chicken, grapes and celery
close up of classic cobb salad with crispy panko chicken and buttermilk ranch dressing
Hearty, Filling Chicken Salad Recipes
Chicken Waldorf Salad. The retro classic, all gussied up for modern tastes.
Curried Chicken Salad Salad. Yes, that’s right. Chicken salad on top of a green salad, therefore this is a salad salad.
Thai Zoodle Salad. Tossed in a creamy, peanut dressing, this crunchy, colorful cold zoodle salad is quick, healthy and satisfying.
Classic Cobb Salad. Just that! A classic Cobb, starring crispy chicken breast, bacon, avocado and all the goodies.
tortellini pasta salad with pesto, mozzarella, roasted red bell peppers, cherry tomatoes and shredded chicken
southwest cobb salad with bacon, chipotle dressing, avocado, corn and beans in a bowl
Pesto Zoodle Salad. Pesto, chicken, zoodles and lots of fresh mozzarella—what’s not to love?
Tortellini Pasta Salad. Tortellini in a pasta salad?!? Yeah, it felt like kind of a revelation to us, too.
Grilled Curry Chicken Salad. A big green salad topped with a curry-spiced grilled chicken, goat cheese and a delicious punchy herb-filled vinaigrette is basically heaven on a platter.
Southwest Cobb Salad. A smoky, grilled riff on classic Cobb! YUM.
shredded instant pot chicken thighs with marinara over polenta in a bowl
Instant pot white bean chicken chili
Slow-Cooker + Chicken Breast = Easiest Chicken Dinner Ever.
Slow-Cooker Butter Chicken. Put that slow-cooker to work! Almost any chicken recipe that needs a long simmer is a good fit for your slow-cooker, and butter chicken is no exception.
Slow-Cooker Swimming Rama. A heaping serving of spinach topped with tender chicken and covered in a rich peanut sauce, swimming rama is a dish we return to again and again.
Instant Pot Chicken Marinara with Polenta. (Recipe below) A FIVE INGREDIENT CHICKEN DINNER, including the polenta. What more do you need to know?
Slow-Cooker Chicken Pumpkin Curry. Rich with coconut milk, chicken breast, crisp veggies, and fresh pumpkin—dinner is ready, set, DONE.
Instant Pot White Bean Chicken Chili. A colorful mix of garlic, green chilies, and red bell pepper mingles with warming cumin and chili powder for a chicken chili even the pickiest eater will adore.
Thai Chicken pizza with cilantro, onions and peanut hoisin sauce
Chicken Terryaki Sushi Bowl
The Randos: Just Because These Chicken Recipes Don’t Fit Tidily Into A Category Doesn’t Make Them Any Less Delicious.
Thai Chicken Pizza. We took two of our favorite takeout meals and combined them because, really, who could blame us?
Chicken Teriyaki Bowl. Homemade teriyaki chicken breast sits atop a bed of steamed, seasoned rice, and creamy avocado in this healthy dinner.
Quinoa Bowl. Chicken breast, avocado and black beans make a hearty, healthy topping for our super-nutritious quinoa bowl.
Loaded Sweet Potato with Chipotle Cashew Cream. Loaded sweet potatoes are stuffed with sliced chicken, kale, avocado and cashew chipotle cream for dinner that answers the question “can healthy food be tasty?” solidly in the affirmative.
Santa Fe Grilled Chicken Sandwich. Homemade chili-herb mayo oozing between crisp, warm bread and pepper Jack cheese melting its way into slices of juicy chicken breast—this warm chicken breast sandwich is just the best.
Related Recipes
Chicken Picatta with lemon and capers in a cast iron skillet
Chicken Piccata
cast iron skillet of kung pao chicken
Kung Pao Chicken
baked orange chicken on white rice topped with sesame seeds and green onions
Easy Orange Chicken
60 Best Chicken Breast Recipes
SERVES: 4
PREP TIME: 15 min
COOK TIME: 25 min
CALORIES: 506
Ingredients
Marry Me Chicken
2 tablespoons
extra-virgin olive oil
4
medium chicken breasts, boneless, skinless, about 2 pounds total
2 teaspoon
kosher salt
½ teaspoon
freshly cracked black pepper
3
cloves garlic, minced
1 cup
heavy cream
1/2 cup
chicken stock
1 teaspoon
chicken flavor “Better Than Bouillon” or 1chicken bouillon cube
½ cup
parmesan cheese, divided
1 (7 oz) jar
sun-dried tomatoes, drained, roughly chopped, about ½ cup
1 teaspoon
Italian seasoning
1/2 teaspoon
crushed red pepper flakes, optional
1/4 cup
basil leaves, thinly sliced
Cooked pasta or mashed potatoes, optional
Method
In a large skillet, set over medium-high, heat the olive oil until glistening.

Season the chicken breasts with 1 teaspoon salt and the pepper.

Add the chicken to the skillet and cook until golden on the bottom, about 5 minutes. Turn and cook on the other side until golden, about 5 minutes longer. Remove the chicken from the pan and set aside.

Add the garlic to the same skillet and cook until fragrant about 1 minute. Stir in heavy cream, chicken stock, bouillon, ¼ cup parmesan cheese, sun dried tomatoes, Italian seasoning, 1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, stirring until fully combined.

Add the chicken back into the skillet. Allow to cook for 5 more minutes or until the internal temperature of the chicken breasts reaches 165°F with an instant read thermometer.

Serve topped with fresh basil, remaining cheese and remaining red pepper flakes. Enjoy on its own or over pasta or mashed potatoes if desired.

Nutrition Info
Per Serving
Amount
CALORIES
506
PROTEIN
59 g
CARBOHYDRATES
12 g
TOTAL FAT
17 g
DIETARY FIBER
7 g
CHOLESTEROL
182 mg
SODIUM
647 mg
TOTAL SUGARS
11 g
60 Best Chicken Breast Recipes

Questions & Reviews
Join the discussion below.

OR
NAME* 
First Last
EMAIL* 
foodie@email.com
COMMENT 
How can we help?
This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Avg: 5
GLORIA M GUERRA
I want to learn more recepies

That's what we are here for! Hope you find some things you are excited to try!

HEATHER POPE
Will these recipes be in your new cookbook coming out in April 2022?
None of these recipes will be in the book.

Four chicken breasts in a braiser with Marry me chicken sauce topped with fresh basil Four chicken breasts in a braiser with Marry me chicken sauce topped with fresh basil Four chicken breasts in a braiser with Marry me chicken sauce topped with fresh basil
Cherish your loved ones and feed them well.
Home
Recipes
About
Contact
Privacy Policy
Join our Newsletter
First Name
First Name
Last Name
Last Name
Email Address
your@email
Subscribe
Follow TMP on Instagram
Follow TMP on Pinterest
Follow TMP on Facebook
RSS Feed
Information from your device can be used to personalize your ad experience.
Do not sell my personal information.
AN ELITE CAFEMEDIA FOOD PUBLISHER